# Certificate Authority
An internal Certificate Authority (CA) which manages and issues certifications for internal services. While a Webserver using HTTPS, sends Certificate Signing Request (CSR) and recieves a signed certificate (crt).


## Table of Contents
- [Architecture](#Architecture)
- [Environment and IP-addresses](#Environment-and-IP-addresses)
- [Folder structure](#Folder-structure)
- [Components](#Components)
- [Requirements](#Requirements)
- [Getting started](#Getting-started)
- [Security Discussion](#Security-Discussion)
- [Design choices and motivation](#Design-choices-and-motivation)


## Architecture
    Diagram


## Environment and IP-addresses

| VM        | Role           | IP-Address  | Description  |
| ------------- |-------------| -----|-----|
| CA      | Certificate Authority | 10.0.0.1 |Certificate Authority and Ansible node.
| Webserver1     | Webserver      | 10.0.0.2 |Webserver hosted by Nginx.
| Webserver2 | Webserver      | 10.0.0.3 |Webserver hosted by Nginx.

## Folder structure
    +---ansible
    |   \---roles
    |       +---config
    |       |   \---tasks
    |       +---csr
    |       |   \---tasks
    |       +---nginx
    |       |   +---handlers
    |       |   \---tasks
    |       \---sign
    |           \---tasks
    \---vagrant
        \---.vagrant
            +---machines
            |   +---ca
            |   |   \---virtualbox
            |   +---webserver1
            |   |   \---virtualbox
            |   \---webserver2
            |       \---virtualbox
            \---rgloader


## Components
Vagrantfile
    
- Defines and creates our VMs, with host names, IP-addreses and resources. Generates key pairs. Installs Ansible and exposes port 443 for our webserver.

hosts.ini
    
- Points to our ansible-users and their IP-addresses.

site.yml
    
- Automates our signing requests (CSR) and our certification (crt) as well as install and configure Nginx.

Role - Config
    
- Configure certification.

Role - CSR
    
- Creates directory on webserver, generates webserver-key, creates certificate signing request (CSR) for new certificate and write CSR to file.

Role - Nginx
    
- Install, configure, restart and ensure Nginx is running. Makes sure it is listening to port 443 and displays a static message for user.

Role - Sign
    
- Fetches CSR from webserver, copies CSR to CA. Checks for exsisting certificates and reads any that do. Signs CSR with our CA, and then writes certificate (crt) and sends back to webserver.


## Requirements
Software requirements for host computer:
- VirtualBox
- Vagrant
- Git

Hardware requirements for host computer:
- X GB RAM


## Getting started - Set up/How to

1. Clone repository
   
    ```Git clone git@github.com:Fili-git/Virtualiseringsteknik.git```
   
    ```cd /Virtualiseringsteknik```
3. Start all VMs

    ```cd vagrant```
   
    ```vagrant up```
3. SSH into CA

    ```vagrant ssh ca```
4. Run ansible-playbook

    ```Git clone https://github.com/Fili-git/Virtualiseringsteknik.git```
   
    ```cd ~/Virtualiseringsteknik```
   
    ```ansible-playbook -i ansible/hosts.ini ansible/site.yml```
6. Verification script?
   
   ex. bash test/verify.sh
8. Trust the CA

    ```cp /opt/ca/ca.crt /vagrant/ca.crt``` on CA VM.

    On host install the certificate into Trusted Root Certification Authoritites.
9. Go onto the webserver
   
   https://10.0.0.2

    Expected results:
   User should be able to access the url and read the message without any security warnings. If step 6 haven't been done, the browser should claim the connection is insecure.


## Security Discussion
We have made an intentional decision to not password protect our certification and SSH keys, due to this being a lab environment. In a real environment, this would be a necessity.

To ensure that this works, the user needs to install a Root certificate generated by the CA VM. User should be careful when installing certificates of an unknown origin.


## Design choices and motivation
### Development
In our earlier development, we had all Ansible tasks in the same file. After testing and making sure the base structure and concept worked, we decided to follow industry standard and split the sections up into appropriate roles and tasks. We did this to ensure scalability and to deepen our knowledge in how Ansible functions on a larger scale.

### Scope
We have choosen to keep it simple and contained for educational purposes, and lessen the risk of making it to large and out of scope. We wanted to focus our time on understanding and learning more about the modules we have implemented. We choose to use Nginx over Python due to our own lack of experience with programming, Nginx was thus more beginner friendly for use in this project. Since we also didn't need to learn a completely new programming language.

### IP Addresses
The IP addresses are choosen for readability, rather than functionality. We decided to use 10.0.0.x in order to have a clear overview, make errors more visible to detect and testing easier. In a proper production, it would be more appropriate to use other IP addresses.

### Virtual Machines
We decided to reduce the amount of Virtual Machines, by combining the Ansible node with our Certificate Authority. With found it unnecessary to have a single VM running Ansible and taking up resources. On a larger scale it can be beneficial to keep them seperate. This requires small changes to how the site.yml runs, since it's currently pointing towards localhost instead of CA.

### Scalability
In the current configuration, Vagrant creats two webservers. Due to declaring a list instead of specific hosts it's easy to add more webservers and keep the overall configuration.

Our Ansible playbook is written in a way where tasks are repeated an appropriate amount based on how many webservers there are. One needs to manually add the additional webservers to the Hosts.ini file, but the rest is automated.
